Explain `Zero` alternative (#48)
mpusz/wg21-papers: src/2982R0_std_quantity_as_a_numeric_type.md

with quantity points, `std::chrono::duration` or any other type that exposes such an interface.

#### Alternative: `Zero` type

The [@AU] library takes a different approach to this problem.  It provides an empty type, `Zero`, which
represents a value of exactly 0 (in any units).  It also provides an instance `ZERO` of this type.  Every
quantity is implicitly constructible from `Zero`.

Consider this example legacy (i.e., pre-units-library) code:

```cpp
if (speed_squared_m2ps2 > 0) { /* ... */ }
```

When users upgrade to a units library, they will replace the raw number `speed_squared_m2ps2` with a strongly
typed quantity `speed_squared`.  Unfortunately, this replacement won't compile, because quantities can't be
constructed from raw numeric values such as `0`.  They can fix this problem by using the instance, `ZERO`,
which encodes its value _in the type_:

```cpp
if (speed_squared > ZERO) { /* ... */ }
```

This has significant advantages.  It preserves the _form_ of the code, making the transition less error prone
than replacement with a function such as `is_gt_zero`.  It also reduces the number of new comparison APIs
a user must learn: `Zero` handles them all.

> `Zero` has one downside: it will not work when passed across _generic quantity_ interfaces.  `Zero`'s value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Zero` has one downside: it will not work when passed across _generic quantity_ interfaces.  The benefit of `Zero`
```
To not confuse it with the value `ZERO`, value of `Zero`.

comes in situations where the surrounding context makes it unambiguous which quantity type it should
construct.  While it converts to any _specific_ quantity type, it is not itself a quantity.  This could
confuse users.

When we examine these failures, we find two categories.

1. **Non-regretted failures:** In these cases, the failure is a blessing in disguise, because it prevents us
   from forming an underspecified request.

2. **Regretted failures:** These are failures where the user's request is perfectly reasonable and

>    unambiguous. We'd prefer that the user's code work, and does what they expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   unambiguous. We'd prefer that the user's code works, and does what they expect.
```

One example of a "non-regretted failure" is a generic speed function, which divides a distance by a time and
returns the results in the natural derived unit:

```cpp
QuantityOf<isq::speed> auto average_speed(
    QuantityOf<isq::distance> auto ds,
    QuantityOf<isq::time> auto dt)
{
    return ds / dt;
}
```

In this case, we might be tempted to write `average_speed(ZERO, 10 * si::second)`, but this wouldn't provide
enough information to determine the units of the return type.  The compilation failure draws our attention to
this omission.

An example "regretted failure" is the unit-aware `max()` function from [@AU].  This function template takes
two different quantity types, and returns whichever quantity is larger, expressed in their common unit.  In

> principle, It's perfectly meaningful to pass `Zero` as one of the arguments of `max()`.  (For example,
> a quantity which is known to be non-negative can come from a computation that sometimes return slightly
> negative results, due to floating point error.)  With `max()` it's also perfectly clear (in principle) which
> quantity type we should construct from `Zero`: that of the other argument.  But in _practice_, template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
principle, it's perfectly meaningful to pass `Zero` as one of the arguments of `max()`.  (For example,
a quantity which is known to be non-negative can come from a computation that sometimes returns slightly
negative results, due to floating point errors).  With `max()`, it's also perfectly clear (in principle) which
quantity type we should construct from `Zero`: That of the other argument.  But in _practice_, template
```

deduction fails because `Zero` is not itself a quantity.

The remedy is to provide new overloads that handle `Zero`, making the `max()` API feel more seamless and less
surprising for the end user.  This does have its costs.  For one thing, it creates extra work on the
implementation side.  It also scales poorly as `Zero` becomes meaningful for more and more parameters in our

> API.  On the other hand, there are hidden benefits as well: if `Zero` becomes a vocabulary type that is useful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API.  On the other hand, there are hidden benefits as well: If `Zero` becomes a vocabulary type that is useful
```

beyond simple quantities, then a single pair of overloads for `max()` will cover every possible type to which
`Zero` is convertible.

For completeness, we should consider how the special function approach would handle this same case, where one
of the arguments to `max` is 0.  It fares slightly better on the implementation side, because it requires only

> one new function instead of two: there is only one "slot" to put the nonzero argument.  However, the end user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one new function instead of two; there is only one "slot" to put the nonzero argument.  However, the end user
```

experience is worse, because they have to learn another new function name.  Moreover, the best name for that
function is not immediately clear.  Finally, if there are other types where this "max-with-zero" functionality
makes sense, we will have to manually add a new overload for every such new type.

Overall, these two approaches --- special functions, and a `Zero` type --- represent two local optima in
design space.  Each has its strengths and weaknesses; each makes different tradeoffs.  It's currently an open

> question as to which approach would be best suited for a quantity type in the standard library.

Reviewer: > An example "regretted failure" is the unit-aware `max()` function from [@AU].  This function template takes
two different quantity types, and returns whichever quantity is larger, expressed in their common unit.

> This function template takes two different quantity types

I'd say you'd want `max` constrained with `std::totally_ordered_with`.
In this case, it'd just work with `Zero`.

The parameters don't have to be quantity types.
But you might want at least one to be a quantity type.

> and returns whichever quantity is larger, expressed in their common unit.

This means we want quantities to be `std::common_with<Zero>`.

Reviewer 2: It seems that @JohelEGP could properly constrain `max()` to make it work in such a case, so I will remove that part of the discussion from the paper.
